This is Context 34.

If you tilt your head and squint, it looks like our world. But it is not. It is
only an imitation.

Not even a good imitation. What gods created this world?

--

On the other side of what serves as the fourth wall, Context 34 is the world I
use for alternate histories, a posteriori conlangs, and stories set in a setting
that is mostly the same as the real world but shows random little differences.

I will not describe the stories here, but the interesting conlang/conworld areas
that have been developed are:

* Greece.

  In this world, the predominant regional power of Ancient Greece is not Athens,
  but Thebes, and the predominant dialect hence Boeotian. Hence the modern
  dialect of Greek spoken is derived from Boeotian. This is the conlang
  Weyötiss.

  There are probably also random minor effects to the political and cultural
  geography of modern Greece.

  Our Modern Greek, the one derived from Attic, survives in some rural parts of
  Attica, but is critically endangered. It is much like Tsakonian in this
  respect. Tsakonian per se does not exist.

  The islands of Crete and Cyprus each host a unified language which is not
  Weyötiss, but rather derived from the Cretan and Cyprian dialects of Ancient
  Greek. These are called Kretiss and Küpriss respectively.

  Cyprus is an independent state, politically speaking. It is also, unlike in
  our world, completely unified; while there is a Turkic cultural presence in
  the north, there is no significant political conflict between Cyprus and
  Turkey (or Northern Cyprus) themselves.

  Crete is a bit more of a grey area—it's an example of a state with a unified
  language that differs significantly from its "parent", which in turn spurs a
  significant independence movement, and which is also a (relatively) remote
  island that is less highly regulated than the "mainland".


* Russia and Japan.

  These are primarily motivated by the story "The Knife", which is not described
  here.

  Russian is replaced with a conlang which tentatively goes by the name
  Dǫnapǫrǫshke. Whether this diverges from other Slavic languages, or whether
  those Slavic languages are also analogically more similar to Dǫnapǫrǫshke (and
  Slavic remains as uniform as in our world) is unspecified. This conlang is of
  some focused development independent of The Knife.

  Japanese is also slightly different, but has not (yet?) been explored.

  As far as conworlding goes, the historical development of Manchuria (and
  possibly also Korea?) is significantly different. In particular, while Russia
  may not have had a significantly *earlier* presence in that area than the
  1860s, its conquest was probably far more complete and longer lasting.
  Ultimately there is probably a strong Russian presence in Manchuria in modern
  times, and also a stronger cultural intermixture of Russia with Japan (and
  northeastern Asia in general).

  The ultimate effects of this, such as has been established in The Weapon, is
  that it's not unusual for Japanese citizens to be ethnic Russians in the
  modern day. Russia and Japan probably have relatively open borders (or at
  least did during much of the 20th century) — far more open than the modern
  day, at least — although relations at the time of The Knife are probably a
  little less than stellar. (Though The Knife likely takes place in something
  closer to the mid 21st century anyway.)

  Other minor differences seen in The Knife include the existence of the
  Japanese city of "Kyōhama", a large city on the scale of Yokohama but probably
  located further to the southwest.

* Wen.

  Wen is an extinct and highly divergent IE conlang. It probably was spoken by a
  population in far eastern Europe, maybe around the upper Dnieper (modern-day
  Belarus). It likely disappeared in the Late Bronze Age collapse. Interactions
  and impact are unspecified.

* Miscellaneous.

  Not much else is established.

  World War II may very well not have happened, or may have happened very
  differently. (In particular Ethel Wolfe is in Context 34, probably was born
  somewhere around the turn of the 20th century, and is essentially a partial
  stand-in for Adolf Hitler). This probably significantly affected Russia in
  particular, which in turn may explain or affect some of the above.