
== Cultural context ==

[the below two paragraphs should be rewritten in a more academic style?]

The swath of land between the Agrómé Toléith and the southeastern spur of the
Actó Atlas [sp.?] has always been a messy place, although the ways in which it
is a mess and the reasons for that have changed over the centuries.

At the height of Dalia's prosperity the whole span of eastern Agrócár was a
fragmented place. Eastern Agrócár was relatively culturally homogeneous, at
least in broad strokes: the lowlands were settled by Tavarians who displaced
native populations; the highlands a bit less so. Despite this, politically
eastern Agrócár was extremely fragmented, with a dozen different cities fighting
for one of two things: control of the trade road from Dalia west to Agrómé
Toléith, or an attempt to unify Agrócár "from the forest to the mountains".
Attempts at the latter were rarely successful, and rarely for long.

[Describe the languages of eastern Agrócár.]

[Describe Dalia itself, the fall, and what that did to eastern Agrócár.]

Given all of this background, it becomes a rather anticlimactic revelation that
the city of Yangharad was uninvolved in these disputes, and has remained
independent for over a millennium, as far back as the recorded history of Dalia
if not earlier. Yet it is crucial to understand the entire political landscape,
lest obvious questions such as "why were the Yangharad not supplanted by Taol or
Mittelo-Tavarians?" go unanswered.

Besides being in an obviously well-defended position, Yangharad was never
wealthy enough to be a worthwhile target for conquest or tribute. The state was
not exactly rich in natural resources. It sustained itself through terraced
farming, in almost all cases requiring magical assistance to obtain even
minimally arable soil; while the entire span of the Actó Atlas is rich enough in
ambient magic to provide a source for such enchantment, Yangharad was hardly the
magical center of the world either (indeed, that quite literally lies over four
hundred kilometres to the northeast). Dalia itself lay on a far richer
wellspring of magic, if records of the great sorcerers who hailed from there are
any indication\footnote{Empirical measurements suggest very high levels of
ambient magic even today, levels which rival even Namó Ablés, such that only the
thorough inaccessibility of the Dalian ruins can explain their barrenness.
However Ólúcan (70) argues that the level of ambient magic observable *today*
may not have been sustained from before the state's collapse; whether this
argument carries weight or not, it is probably an error to assume that the level
ambient magic observable from the surface was equal to (or even less than!) that
observable from underground or even from the nadir of the historic cirque, and
we must therefore rely only on written evidence.};