[This is... stale? The phonology is not so much stale as kind of boring.
Consonants should probably be redone again, mostly in terms of phonation.
Everything else is very stale.]

Consonants:
m n  ŋ
  tʰ kʰ
  t  k
b d  g

r l

/tʰ kʰ/ are written th ch (and /k/ is written c), and /ŋ/ is written ng, or nh
intervocalically.

Vowels (and romanization):
i y ɨ u   i oe y u
e     o   e      o
ɛ     ʌ   ea    eo
  a          a

Also diphthongs in -i and -u.

The syllable structure is probably best analyzed as (C)(j)V(V)R, where the coda
consonant is one of /m n ŋ l r/. Before a stop this distinction is lost and R is
always realize as a homorganic nasal. Before /r l/ it assimilates. Before
another nasal however the distinction remains.


Allophony is fairly prevalent across morpheme and word boundaries, given the
divergent syllable structures there. As vowels cannot precede stops, a nasal is
inserted before initial stops: bearanna "to be", but túinde mbearanna "I am".
Similarly, Words ending in a liquid assimilate to the following consonant, as
canheon "canyon" + but canheom bearanna "there is a canyon". Final -gm or -gn
assimilate as any other nasal... except before a nasal where they instead smooth
to /ŋ/. Of course, there's also assimilations that just don't make much sense
anyway.

Morphology is mostly unremarkable (basically, most things are prepositive), and
wasn't very rigid anyway, so we'll just skip over it.

Stress, which I neglected to mention previously, is antepenultimate.
Two-syllable words act like Greek enclitics, putting a secondary stress on the
previous word's ultimate syllable. What few monosyllables there are just get
ignored completely.

Adjectives and adverbs are usually prepositive, it seems. Verbs (participles, in
effect, although that probably means I'm thinking about this wrong) taking an
object follow said object, so mairellëonda ntumbendantur banneanhemmuean "X
Y-ing Z". Oh, and the verb can be passivized, like any verb, with "near". Et
cetera. Meh, grammar is less interesting anyway... it all comes down to there
being not that much grammatical structure, because it wasn't especially
necessary; heck, nouns got left off often as not and if you're shaking your head
right now remember that this is an entlang and the descendant will be better.
