Ellenesian verbs have four tenses (present, imperfect, future and aorist), three moods (indicative, subjunctive, and imperative), and the usual six person-number forms. (Expand this section.)

I have organized verbs into several conjugations. In Ellenesian, as in existing Romance languages, the lemma is the infinitive and usually ends in one of -e, -a, -o.

"Boot ablaut" refers to a pattern of vowel changes, usually in the imperfect and aorist indicative. It is so called because the conjugations it affects have the shape of a boot:

	épena	epiename
	épenas	epienade
	épene	épena

The ablaut patterns are: é to e, ó to o, ie to e, ue to o. All other vowels do not shift. (These came from breaking of ε/ει, ο/ου, η, ω respectively.) Boot ablaut applies to the penult in classes II-IV and the antepenult and penult elsewhere.


Class I: Originally verbs ending in vowel stems that did not contract (ίω, ύω, εύω). These verbs are the first regular paradigm. They are recognizable for ending in a vowel or -v- followed by -e (but take warning that this may also apply to classes VI-VIII). Boot ablaut may apply. Future and aorist in -s-, PAP in -gos, PPP in -menos.
	Verbs in -νῡμι (and poetic in -νημι) were thematicized to this class.
	Class Id: (Smyth's fifth class) present stems in -c-/-ç- (from -σκω); dropped in other tenses. Applies to classes VI-VIII.

Class II: -άω contract verbs. Second regular paradigm. Infinitive in -a. Contract verbs have a different accentuation pattern but are actually more regular than class I. Boot ablaut may apply. Unique present and imperfect; future and aorist in -ies- (from ησ, boot ablaut applies); PAP in -egos, PPP in -emenos.

Class III: -έω contract verbs. Third regular paradigm. Infinitive in -e. Boot ablaut may apply. Unique present and imperfect (present shared with Class V future), future and aorist in -ies- (from ησ, boot ablaut applies); PAP in -egos, PPP in -emenos.

Class IV: -όω contract verbs. Fourth regular paradigm. Infinitive in -o. Boot ablaut may apply. Unique present and imperfect, future and aorist in -ues- (from ωσ, boot ablaut applies); PAP in -ogos, PPP in -omenos.

Class V: (Smyth's third class liquid/nasal stems) Originally verbs in -ν, -ρ which metathesized the /j/ in the present stem; also verbs ending in -μ, -λ (present in -λλω), as such they fall into distinct ablaut patterns:
	Class Va: From -α-, -a- in present but -i- before -n- or -r-, -a- in future, -e- in aorist (from -η-); boot ablaut (to -ie-) may apply.
	Class Vb: From -ε-, -e- in all tenses; boot ablaut may apply (to -é-).
	Class Vc: From short -ῐ-, -e- in present but -i- followed by -n- or -r-, -e- in future, -i- in aorist.
	Class Vd: From short -ῠ-, -u- in present, -o- in future, -u- in aorist.
	Class Ve: (Smyth's fourth class) Verbs in -ανω, -νω (> -ανω), υνω were regularized to class V; they have -a- in all tenses.
	Class Vf: From other vowels; boot ablaut may apply.
	Present as class I. The future has a unique set of endings identical to class III present (from -ῶ.) PAP in -lcos, -ncos, -rcos; PPP in -lmenos, -̂menos (from earlier -smenos), -rmenos.

Class VI: From labial stems (-φω, -βω, -πω). Boot ablaut may apply. Present as class I; future and aorist replace the final consonant with -us- (from -ψ-); PAP ?; PPP replace the final consonant with -menos. Final consonant may be Ø (from -β-).
	Class VIa: (Smyth's second class) present stems in -ut- (from -πτω). All other tenses replace -ut- with -us-, etc.
	Class VId: see class Id.

Class VII: From dental stems (-θω, -δω, -τω). Boot ablaut may apply. Present as class I; future and aorist replace the final consonant with -s-; PAP with -gos; PPP with -̂menos (from earlier -smenos).
	Class VIIb: (Smyth's third class) present stems in -s- (from -ζω, from -djō). Other tenses replace -s- with -s-, etc.
	Class VId: see class Id.

Class VIII: From palatal stems (-χω, -γω, -κω). Boot ablaut may apply. From -χω an alteration between -qu- and -c-; from -γω Ø or -c-/-ç-, from -κω -c-/-ç-. Present as class I; future and aorist replace the final consonant with -is- (from -ξ-); PAP ?; PPP ?.
	Class VIIIb: (Smyth's third class) present stems in -s- (from -ζω, from -(n)gjō). Other tenses replace -s- with -is-, etc.
	Class VIIIc: (Smyth's third class) present stems in -t- (from -ττω, from -k⁽ʰ⁾jō). Other tenses replace -t- with -is-, etc.
	Class VId: see class Id.

The subjunctive derives from the original optative, except in the case of some irregular verbs (éna, iéna.)

Verbs take an augment e- in the imperfect and aorist indicative; this augment can be subject to boot ablaut (to é) if the verb root is short enough. Exceptions:
	- Some verbs beginning in a consonant take ei- or eu-, which is NOT subject to boot ablaut. This is from partial elision of an earlier consonant cluster. E.g. suqu-e (Class VIII) becomes eu-suc-o (imperfect); eu-sui-s-a (aorist).
	- Verbs beginning in a vowel usu. change the vowel quality: a- and e- to e- (ablauts to ie-) but some e- to i- (from earlier ῐ-), o- to o- (ablauts to ue-) but some o- to u- (from earlier ῠ-).

The PAP and PPP are formed by reduplicating the initial consonant of the verb root; e.g. lu-e (Class I) becomes le-lu-gos. However there are some exceptions:
	- Verbs beginning in h- become instead peh-, teh-, ceh-; these are from πεφ-, τεθ-, κεχ- respectively. e.g. hañ-e (Class Va) becomes pe-han-cos.
	- Verbs historically beginning in a consonant cluster (as above) take the same ei- or eu-. E.g. suqu-e (Class VIII) becomes eu-sug-ménos.
	- Verbs beginning with vowels use reduplicated forms identical to their augmented forms.
