ON THE GEONIAN FAMILY AND ITS PLACE IN ASTERICAL LINGUISTICS

	A TREATISE BY HAIRALE TUIRENNA

THE Geönian family, as described by Kelat and others, comprises several languages spoken in the Duerol highlands. Kelat gives the family as follows:

Geönian
Elian (Ęttim)
Tyrälian
Ziklian
Rithian
Exaëlian

To this may be added the langauge known as Kalvürian, as the admittedly sparse evidence has suggested a connection (Dzébók et al.)

The Geönian languages are noteworthy for being the only known Elmin languages to use a syllabary. However, the varation in scripts used to represent Geönian languages is great, and variations do not correspond exactly with the given languages. This has resulted in the promotion of the Memorizôn script as a standard for the family, which has met with some success. However, many scripts are also inter-legible between similar areas, forming in effect a "script continuum". This has hampered the progress of standardization. For these reasons, quotations in this book not using Memorizôn will be transcribed both into the Memorizôn syllabary, as well as transliterated into the Qoqq alphabet.

The connection between Geönian languages and other Asterical languages has always been small, largely due to a lack of true cognates. For unknown reasons, the majority of Geönian vocabulary, including many primary grammatical words such as pronouns, show no cognates, neither any sign of being loan-words. The assumption by Dzébók et al. that this vocabulary has its origins in a Geönian substrate is possible, but the only evidence that such a substrate does in fact exist is the exceedingly high quantity of said vocabulary. Additionally, most inscriptions found in the Duerol area show no sign of substrate vocabulary (however, there is evidence to show connexion with other Asterical languages. For the purposes of this treatise I have designated any such inscription Ophiurean, after the Geönian name (ö-phi-w-r) for Kanuntás, where the majority of these inscriptions have been found to date.)

Thus I must presume that the Geönian "substrate" was actually a language spoken by a tribe of Sea Peoples, who migrated to the region and conquered the native Ophiureans. While no records can be found of a Sea Peoples invasion at this time (which is surprising given how far inland the Duerol region is) this hypothesis is supported by observable physical differences (Lamdûť et al.) However, this still does not explain the grammatical similarities between Geönian and other Asterical languages, as I shall describe.

Asterical languages are known to have subject-first word order, and Geönian languages are consistent with this description—however, unlike any Asterical language excepting Qhuraal-Myrve, Geönian languages allow no adverb to come between the verb and the object. Other similarities are consistent—e.g. the presence of case inflection, the presence of aspect distinction (although, unlike other Asterical languages, Geönian, Elian and Kalvürian apparently have innovated a distinct perfect aspect.)

Geönian languages, with the exception of Geönian proper, appear to have kept the entirety of the Asterical case system. Geönian itself seems to have lost both the ablative and the dative case, their functions being apparently replaced by, respectively, the use of the prepositions (tu) (apparently *tew, cf. Maotic so) and (i-kā) (Proto-Geönian *eyka, of unknown origin). In Exaëlian and Rithian this was apparently re-innovated, as in (ski-nn-a-u-t), (tä-ve-kyu-t). Kalvürian (hä-ŋ-te-n-t) is doubtful. In addition, there is at least some evidence of other cases, including a circumessive in da-s-ta, 