here are a few ideas

verb: thujg (present thug, future thung)

togan
toga
toge
togo

tögen
tögna (tögen?)
tögen
tögen

tögo
töga
tögo
tögo
togäke
töga (tögeh-?)

past stem tig? (from thujg -> thig?) or tög? or something
maybe just innovate a past suffix instead (s/maybe/probably/g)

future stem could be tong- but as long as we're innovating a past suffix we might as well innovate a future one

in both cases we could keep the regularly formed tenses as old forms

interesting to note that plural is in -en and collective is in -o except 2s, but I don't really want to change that b/c togna looks nice

except /n/ isn't a good consonant so I guess that'd have to be tog-nga-- no that's ugly so it'd dissimilate to tog-ma. Or maybe tog-na with proper /n/.

uh

here are the perfective forms

togte
togta (eh -> a, fix this above)
togte
togtewo?

togter
togtu
togter
togti

togte
togte
togtu
togtu

all in all I like these forms less except maybe the singular (and even then -ewo is ugly, but VV > VwV is a Good Idea (tm))

should the script associate syllable boundaries with morpheme boundaries? e.g. to-g-a-n instead of to-ga-n? answer: almost certainly, yeah

wait, why am I so averse to coda consonants? this is influenced by Geonian dragonspeak, so it likes coda consonants, and English, so it really likes coda consonants. also, forgot that voicing un-happened. (aspiration does stay, but mostly labial and only sometimes dental. perhaps only before original /o ɑ a/.) so here is modified thing:

to-k-a-ng	to-k-te		to-k-n
to-k-a		to-k-te-k	to-k-a
to-k-e		to-k-te-t	to-k-ve
to-k-o-t	to-k-te-wo-t	to-k-sk
tö-k-e-n-t	to-k-te-r-t	to-k-n-t
tö-k-na		to-k-tu		to-k-na
tö-k-e-ng	to-k-te-r-t	to-k-nen
tö-k-e-n-t	to-k-ti-t
tö-k-u		to-k-te-p
tö-k-a		to-k-te
tö-k-o-t	to-k-tu-t
tö-k-o-t	to-k-tu-t
to-k-ä-ki	to-k-të-r-te
tö-k-i		to-k-të-te

closer, but still not quite what I'm looking for. for one the -nt is ugly, and I'm inclined to remove it altogether. although.... prenasalization could be a thing.
-r-t isn't great but it might as well stay, it's not like this language is supposed to be pretty. then again, not sure if I'm going to keep the perfective, period.
the only obvious problem is that there seems to be way too much levelling of the consonants... right now all five dentals become /t/. so let's change that.... and keep what I apparently called the Northern consonant shift, so /t d/ become /s z/, and for the sake of experiment we'll keep the voicing distinction (after all f/v is a thing. [note: where *does* that come from?])
also let's put a prenasalization thing on -nC, not sure what to do with it yet but we'll see.

~and then he realized that there was only one case of -tV and it was the perfective participle. so that won't work. besides it's already practically canon that this language doesn't have the NCS.

plus having prenasalized consonants would mess things up anyway. Better just to figure this out all at once... but it'll require research.

well we have /t d tʰ tʼ ɗ/ and /ⁿt ⁿd ⁿtʰ ⁿtʼ ⁿɗ/

let's say first Cʔ > Cː, then d > some lateral

actually forget prenasalization b/c it's bad

instead vocalize any case of /n/ before a consonant, and vocalize it into either ë or ï

here is Proto-Geönian:

tokaï	tokte		tokë
toka	toktek		toka
toke	toktet		tokve
tokot	toktewot	tok
tökeït	toktert		tokët
tökna	toktu		tokna
tökeï	toktert		toknen
tökeït	toktit
töku	toktep
töka	tokte
tökot	toktut
tökot	toktut
tokäki	toktërte
töki	toktëte

----------------------------------
revisit #1:
----------------------------------

On the basis of Mongolian, we reanalyze the system as /pʰ p tʰ t k g/, because I actually do rather like the æsthetic of the initial conjugation tables. These don't directly result from the shift of one/two POAs, rather from a complex system. Anyway, Proto-Geönian—

togan
togapt
toge
togo
tog

...the verbal system of Proto-* probably should get reworked (at least the imperfective anyway.) Perhaps work from Kindæ A as a guide.

Also: -t I don't like for some reason. Solution: -t > -k. (this also explains Ragnörak— the -at ending gets borrowed from pronouns and becomes -ak.)