having two computers is problems.

anyway:

what prepositions do we use? I like απ, εκ, επ, κατ, πο̨τ especially, also all of these probably assimilate to a following stop; the last two assimilate to a following liquid as well. πεσ exists because Boeotian, also παρ with the accusative. σύν is doing fine. ἀμφί, ἀνά, ἀντί and διά don't exist anymore. ἐν and περί (metathesized to πιρε) exist only as a preposition. Not sure about the status of: πρό, ὑπό/ὑπέρ

—I think υπερ does a French and becomes υρ- (mb through elision, mb through π > β > ϝ). not sure about υπο though; we could similarly have υπο > υ; we could also do the same thing French does and suffix it. either way though I think these should be proper prepositions; I've just been hanging up until now since I didn't have any good way to phonologically morph them

the preposition 'ap', when used with verbs, is very generic and may sort of strengthen the verb. since we can't actually use verbal nouns like regular nouns except when compounded, we often shove ap- onto the front to achieve this.

the preposition 'ep', when used with nouns, means just about anything.

okay, let's provide a comprehensive DICTIONARY OF PREPOSITIONS

[

απ: with nouns, generally still "away from", but its use is fairly limited, possibly just to a few set verbs like "take". not used of time as in Attic.

εκ: still "out of"

επ: generic preposition.

κατ:

πες: 1. spatial: (c. gen) among, within; (c. dat) in place of
2. of substance: (c. gen) as, in the form of; (c. dat) as, comprised of

πο̨τ: 1. generally spatial but implying motion; the meaning depends on the case. hence with the genitive, "away from", with the accusative "into". 2. with the dative "at".

σηυν: still "with". also, adverbially, "also".

]

actually: this is a pretty interesting idea but it'd require messing with a lot of stuff: ἐπί gets mixed up with the phonologically identical (but for length) ἐπεί.

What the fuck did you just fucking say about me, you little bitch?

Ar ti ep kor utern wainoleloys tu ep me, tu mikkokor?

- normal speech might use wainoleloys'n but this is a translation so we literally use utern [< ὕστερον]
- idk if there's a word for bitch but I just used 'shit' twice because we can't use fuck twice

I’ll have you know I graduated top of my class in the Navy Seals,

What the fuck did you just fucking say about me, you little bitch? I’ll have
you know I graduated top of my class in the Navy Seals, and I’ve been involved
in numerous secret raids on Al-Quaeda, and I have over 300 confirmed kills. I
am trained in gorilla warfare and I’m the top sniper in the entire US armed
forces. You are nothing to me but just another target. I will wipe you the
fuck out with precision the likes of which has never been seen before on this
Earth, mark my fucking words. You think you can get away with saying that shit
to me over the Internet? Think again, fucker. As we speak I am contacting my
secret network of spies across the USA and your IP is being traced right now
so you better prepare for the storm, maggot. The storm that wipes out the
pathetic little thing you call your life. You’re fucking dead, kid. I can be
anywhere, anytime, and I can kill you in over seven hundred ways, and that’s
just with my bare hands. Not only am I extensively trained in unarmed combat,
but I have access to the entire arsenal of the United States Marine Corps and
I will use it to its full extent to wipe your miserable ass off the face of
the continent, you little shit. If only you could have known what unholy
retribution your little “clever” comment was about to bring down upon you,
maybe you would have held your fucking tongue. But you couldn’t, you didn’t,
and now you’re paying the price, you goddamn idiot. I will shit fury all over
you and you will drown in it. You’re fucking dead, kiddo.


1 May

is this the last document I was using? maybe

anyway:

ἀλλά doesn't survive. it doesn't get replaced... I want to do something else

HOWEVER: even in Greek τὰ τ' ἄλλα καὶ is idiomatic for "especially". this
becomes τταλλακα̨ or mb τταλκα̨ with probably a similar meaning?