[25 June 2020]

What the fuck did you just fucking say about me, you little bitch? I'll have you
know I graduated top of my class in the Navy Seals, and I've been involved in
numerous secret raids on Al-Quaeda, and I have over 300 confirmed kills. I am
trained in gorilla warfare and I'm the top sniper in the entire US armed forces.
You are nothing to me but just another target. I will wipe you the fuck out with
precision the likes of which has never been seen before on this Earth, mark my
fucking words. You think you can get away with saying that shit to me over the
Internet? Think again, fucker. As we speak I am contacting my secret network of
spies across the USA and your IP is being traced right now so you better prepare
for the storm, maggot. The storm that wipes out the pathetic little thing you
call your life. You're fucking dead, kid. I can be anywhere, anytime, and I can
kill you in over seven hundred ways, and that's just with my bare hands. Not
only am I extensively trained in unarmed combat, but I have access to the entire
arsenal of the United States Marine Corps and I will use it to its full extent
to wipe your miserable ass off the face of the continent, you little shit. If
only you could have known what unholy retribution your little "clever" comment
was about to bring down upon you, maybe you would have held your fucking tongue.
But you couldn't, you didn't, and now you're paying the price, you goddamn
idiot. I will shit fury all over you and you will drown in it. You're fucking
dead, kiddo.

Let's do navy seal for real this time

Ar tuh ep kor ti ep kor wainoleloys'n ep me, tuh hüson?

  - normal speech might use wainoleloys'n but this is a translation so we
    literally use utern [< ὕστερον]

    - actually, because I want to show off the language, I'm going to use the
      idiomatic thing

  - "ep kor" before any word (yes, before—idk if this is taboo deformation or
    what) is used as a generic expletive/intensifier. it also doesn't respect
    normal word order, kind of existing in a state outside that like "ar". of
    course I think in general we should be less strict about word order

  - hüson is from υΐδιον or υδιον

[29 June 2020]

Ioŋ's o krötits o suhonmo ttlautak pöt aut sram ep Navy Seals,

  - pöt aut sram (< δρᾶμα), lit. "toward the thing itself", but best translated
    as "actually", "in fact", with strong contrastive force

  - tlauto, -as, -ak, -ass "complete", with specialized mg "graduate"

  - suhon "rank in class" < "class" < ζυγόν "yoke", after Finnish luokka < luokki

kkä ioŋ me nenukh tä ärithoms rasya tä kruptä ep Al-Kaïta,

  - nauŋŋumo, naukhso, nuh, nenukh, a nauŋŋ is an irregular verb from
    ἐνζεύγνυμι, which follows the identical pattern of sauŋŋumo < ζεύγνυμι. it
    is used as a sort of ad-hoc reflexive, "I involve myself in". weyötiss is
    sort of beginning to reinvent reflexives by dropping prepositions (even at
    the time of writing the preposition would definitely feel not just formal
    but antiquated)

  - rasya < Fr. razzia (seems to be a common borrowing)

kkä ta phonamo 300äks kä pyon kkrötun.

  - weyötiss doesn't do participles, we have to rewrite the sentence to use a
    passive finite verb. moreover it's more idiomatic to make 300 an adverb in
    this case

  - kä pyon = "and more" = idiomatic translation of "over"

  - 300äks is short for tri(s)köshäks

  - kkrötun "have" < κρατύνω. Weyötiss innovates a Western European style
    possessive verb, largely since it doesn't have anything else to work with.

Me 