Weyötiss has no single word for "where". In its place, one must generally use e.g. ο λιμον (< λείμων) ο το/τα ..., but this is dispreferred in relative clauses... you just rework what you're saying I guess

I'm torn between 'huparkho' and 'parkho'... or maybe 'hukkho'? no not the last one

what I want is 'pakkho', maybe I can just derive that from another verb

actually no it should be a word-game kind of thing, ηυπα(ρ)χο > πακχο, ταραττο > ραττο, maybe ερευθο > ρευτθο. this may not be a great idea since, well, there aren't a lot of verbs that can be modified in this way, but I like it at least in the first case or two.

another common colloquial/slang thing is to drop liquids in CRV, and less commonly in VRC.

the present in weyötiss is slowly dying out, in case that wasn't evident. on the one hand, it's *not* that evident, because although it's rarely used in in direct clauses, it sees a fair amount of indirect use. the point is that these indirect uses are themselves all getting supplanted by other formations.

the same thing is happening to the infinitive, but it takes longer. the infinitive is surprisingly tenacious for how basically redundant it is.

I was going to use this sentence to demonstrate the usage of παρχο as a periphrastic future:

Are you coming to the school dance?

but it came out as

Αρ τυ ιν τον το μεκτεπ χορς παρχα?

which obviously isn't periphrastic (or, if it is, the main verb is elided.) of couse there isn't actually a noun we can put there (ελθο is defective, ιμμα̨ is a "verb"...) so we don't.

that's interesting in itself of course

the prefix "not" takes the form αν-, but α- before liquids

κυ̨ρ is a title of address mostly because I like the look of the word

things to note:

panel 1: The correct word is αρμμο (i.e. αρμ=μο food=1SG). Literal translation "what is becoming of my foond".

panel 2: Correctly spelled φομμτο'ν (i.e. φομμ-το-'ν steak=2SG=PROX). The word ΑΛΑΧ should be ΑΛΑΧΝΟΝ (i.e. α-λαχν-ον without-vegetable-N). Literal translation "your steank here VEGETALLESS you thus ordered sir"

panel 3: To translate the weirdness that the English text gives, I did two things. First, I used κα̨ rather than κκα̨, the latter of which being the normal conjunction for independent words; second, I used the masculine form of the adjectives rather than the feminine (the normal unmarked usage) or the neuter (to agree with φομμ "steak").

panel 4: Normally expressed "αρ ιττα̨ α λοͱα ταν 'αλαχνον'", lit. "is there a saying 'vegetable-less'", but here the verbal noun is replaced with a finite verb in the preterite.